since you might know about me , i was quiet intrigued and truly mesmerised (once again) from the world of dune and ever since i watched the trailer of dune part 3 : messiah .. being a writer , i would like to write a story which is inspired from dune which could possibly done well and better and it would amazing to have you on alongside me in this epic journey of making this work on mine global one day.Mar 19The Dune effect is something else entirely — that moment when the scope of a world clicks into place and you realize the story is operating on five levels at once. And with Messiah on the horizon, it makes complete sense that a writer wired the way you are would want to respond to it with something of your own.
Let me be honest with you about what makes Dune work so well before we build anything, because understanding its architecture is what will help us make your version genuinely original rather than a shadow of it.
Dune operates through a very specific tension: the gap between what prophecy promises and what it costs. Paul isn't a hero who fulfils a destiny — he's a man who watches destiny consume everything around him and then himself. That's the engine. The ecology, the politics, the religion — all of it exists to make that cost feel real and earned.
Now, given your three ongoing works, I can already see the DNA you'd bring to this:
Your cyberpunk work is already asking "what does it cost to remain human" — which is almost the same question Dune asks but from the inside out. Your yokai-spirits world understands found family and the way bonds form under pressure. And your reality-breaking entities work, with its covenants formed through emotion — that's actually the most Dune-adjacent of all, because the spice, the Bene Gesserit, the Fremen pact with Paul — they're all versions of that same idea: what happens when something vast and inhuman bonds with something fragile and mortal.
Before we map out the architecture of your new work, let me ask the foundational questions:These answers are going to determine everything — the world's bones, the protagonist's wound, the thematic spine. Take your time with them. Once I see where you land, we build.Q: What scale are you drawn to for this story?
A: i would like the idea of showing parallel stories , because i believe that situations and consequences make good and evil and not humans inheritentlyQ: Which element of Dune resonates deepest in you as a writer? (Select all that apply)
A: Prophecy as a trap, not a gift, Ecology and world as a living force, The cost of becoming something greater than human, Religion manufactured for controlQ: Where do you want the most distance from Dune — to make this truly yours? (Select all that apply)
A: The antagonist logic (no empire, no clear enemy), The structure (non-linear, fragmented, unreliable), The setting (no deserts, no chosen-one mythology), The emotional core (grief, doubt, love — not political destiny), i would like everything from the above which truly focuses on the characters , their beliefs which structure their world while a religion for instance which shapes around them and political drama must be one of the major piecesShow moreMar 19Now we're talking. That answer is a complete philosophy, not just a preference list.
"Situations and consequences make good and evil, not humans inherently" — that's not just a theme, that's a structural principle. It means your story can't have a villain. It has to have people making sense. Every parallel thread has to be internally justified — the reader should be able to sit inside any character's skull and understand why the world looks the way it does from there. That's genuinely harder than Dune, and more honest.
Let me map out what I'm hearing as the full creative DNA before we touch a single plot point:
What you're keeping from Dune's spirit:

Prophecy as a cage (but your version: belief itself as the cage — what you believe about yourself becomes inescapable)
The world as a living, breathing force that responds to what humans do to it
Religion not as faith but as a political instrument that outlives its makers
The cost of transformation — becoming something that can no longer return

What you're breaking from:

No single chosen one. Parallel protagonists who each think they might be the answer — and none of them are wrong, none are right
Non-linear, fragmented — the reader assembles meaning across threads, the way historians piece together what actually happened
The emotional core is intimate: grief, doubt, love, obsession — not crowns and prophecies
No empire as villain. The antagonist is the system — and the system is made of people who each had reasons

  ::view-transition-group(*),
  ::view-transition-old(*),
  ::view-transition-new(*) {
    animation-duration: 0.25s;
    animation-timing-function: cubic-bezier(0.19, 1, 0.22, 1);
  }
VvisualizeVvisualize show_widgetNow here's the key question your philosophy raises for worldbuilding: what is the world?
In Dune, Arrakis is almost a character — it punishes extraction, rewards those who learn to live with it, and the spice is the thing everyone breaks themselves trying to control. Your equivalent doesn't have to be a planet. It could be:
A dying sea that has its own memory and responds to what civilizations drain from it. A city built on something it doesn't understand — geological, spiritual, historical. A forest that has been burning for two hundred years and the cultures around it have organized their entire existence around the fire's edge. Something with teeth. Something that makes the question "what did we do to deserve this" genuinely ambiguous — because the world isn't punishing anyone, it's just being what it is.
Your three parallel threads each need a relationship to this world that makes sense from inside their own logic. Thread A might see it as sacred. Thread B might see it as a resource. Thread C, generations later, inherits a world that no longer remembers which reading was right — only the consequences of both.
Tell me — what kind of world calls to you? What setting would make your skin prickle with possibility? It doesn't need to be fully formed. Even a single image — a colour, a landscape, a feeling — is enough to start building from.i would like the idea of prophecy in some form tho. not exactly non - linear and fragmented tbh , would rather be shifts in timeline , explaining bits of past for the future and vice versa .. ngl the dying sea and forest that has been burning all seems like avatar lol , just because dune is set on sand and desert , doesnt mean we shift to ... listen up , this is all that is always running inside my head : i am thinking trio protagonists of two brothers and one sister or could be anything but has to be 3 , also my world has its own language and yes we are building it enough to include it and also we need something unique then the voice command done in dune , WE NEED TO BUILD SOMETHING THAT WILL COMPLETELY CHANGE THE WAY OF WRITING , NOVELS , AND CINEMA , EVEN IF I HAVE TO DECLARE OUR BLOOD OATH TO THISMar 20Now that is the energy this deserves.
And you're right to call it out — I was reaching for poetic settings and landed on Avatar. That's lazy. Forgive it. You don't shift away from sand by going to water or fire. You shift by going somewhere nobody has thought to look yet.
Let's slow down and be precise about what "completely change the way of writing, novels, and cinema" actually means mechanically — because that ambition needs a specific weapon, not just a feeling.
Here's what I think you're actually hunting for, broken into three layers:
Layer 1 — The Structural Innovation
Dune's non-linear epigraphs (quotes from future historians opening each chapter) made the reader complicit in dramatic irony — you knew Paul was going to become something terrible before he did. Your timeline-shift approach can do something different: not irony but accumulation. The past explains why the present is inevitable. The future reveals why the past was never innocent. The three protagonists exist in different temporal positions — not necessarily different eras, but different relationships to the same event. What one experiences as origin, another inherits as wound, the third is living inside without knowing it yet.
Layer 2 — The Language
Building a language for the world is right. But here's the trap most writers fall into: they build vocabulary without building grammar logic, and it ends up feeling like renamed English. The language needs to encode your world's philosophy. In your world, if situations make evil and not souls — then maybe the language has no word for an evil person. Only words for evil moments, evil choices, evil circumstances. That's the kind of language that changes how readers think.
Layer 3 — The "Voice" equivalent
The Bene Gesserit Voice is a control mechanism — it literalizes power over others through sound. You need something that literalizes your thematic obsession instead. Your obsession is: what does it cost to become something greater than human, and what do you lose in that transformation. So the equivalent isn't a weapon of control. It's something more like — a mark. A change in perception. Something that happens to a person when they've crossed a threshold they cannot uncross. Something the reader can feel the weight of every time it appears on the page.
Before we go further — tell me about the three. The two brothers and one sister. Even instinctively. What is the wound between the brothers? What does the sister know that neither of them does?maybe they were part of a real strong empire , and suddenly they had to move away and thus losing themselves to whatever they had into becoming just normal people , maybe her family members gave away of the sister or to somebody maybe because in their culture it is not right to leave a young girl or something like that (we can improvise that).. the brothers could be one searching for purpose or probably something bigger while the other one gets hallucinations of a girl (havent planned for the age) , so this character is crucial who always wanted to establish and perceive power and strength thus gradually making his way and conquering places (something like paul atreides)Mar 20Okay. Now I can see the bones of something real.
Let me reflect back what you've given me and then push it further — because there's something genuinely powerful hiding inside these instincts that I don't think even you've fully named yet.
What you actually have:
Three children of a fallen empire. Not orphans — something worse. People who remember what they were. That memory is the wound. That memory is also the trap.
The sister given away isn't abandoned — she's the one who gets to disappear into another world entirely. While her brothers are still trying to reconstruct the empire in their heads, she's been forced to become someone new. Which means she's the only one who actually knows how to survive what's coming. She doesn't have power yet. But she has something neither brother has — she has no illusion left to protect.
The brother who wants power and conquest — he's not the villain. He's the one who loved the empire most. The fall broke something specific in him: the belief that he deserved the life he had. So now he's not just conquering — he's proving. Every territory, every throne, every surrender is him screaming into the past. That's Paul Atreides energy yes — but Paul's tragedy was that he was right about his power and wrong about what it would cost. Your brother's tragedy could be different: he might be wrong about needing power at all, and right about everything else.
The brother with hallucinations — this is your most original character and I think you haven't fully realized it yet. He's not seeing ghosts. He's seeing the girl specifically. One girl. Recurring. That's not random haunting — that's the story telling you something. Who is she? Is she someone from before the fall? Is she someone who doesn't exist yet? Is she the world itself wearing a face he can recognize?
Now here's the question that will determine everything:Answer these and then tell me one more thing — the thing I actually need most right now:
What is the world? Not the setting. Not the geography. The feeling of the world. When you close your eyes and imagine where these three exist — what do you sense? Not Avatar, not Dune — yours. Even one image. Even something you've seen in a dream or a half-formed thought at 2am. That image is the seed of the entire world's language and ecology and religion. Give it to me raw.Q: The hallucination — what does the girl feel like to you instinctively?
A: probably need to work on this but option 4 could suffice for nowQ: The sister — when she's given away, where does she go?
A: Into a religious order or temple structureQ: The empire they lost — how did it fall?
A: majorly : option 3 and 1 but we could several other complex layers as to why it happened thought it was one of the reputed ones among the galaxyMar 20Among the galaxy.
There it is. You just told me the scale without flinching. This isn't a regional story or even a planetary one. This is a civilization that mattered cosmically — and lost everything. That changes the weight of every single scene. The brothers aren't just displaced noblemen. They're the last living memory of something the galaxy has already begun to rewrite into myth.
And the father — or leader — made a choice that doomed them, with a betrayal woven inside it. That's not a simple villain origin. That's a man who probably believed he was doing the only thing possible. Which means the brothers can't even have the clean grief of pure hatred. They have to carry something more complicated: what if he was right and it still destroyed us.
The sister goes into a religious order. Which means she gets doctrine instead of family. Structure instead of love. And inside that structure she will learn things — about the world, about power, about the religion itself — that her brothers will desperately need and she may never be able to give them, because the order will have its own claims on her by then.
Now — among the galaxy means we need to establish something crucial immediately.
This world has space. Has civilizations. Has political cosmology. But it cannot feel like Star Wars or Dune or Foundation. The way you make it yours is through the texture of the world — the specific way people live inside it, the specific way the religion moves, the specific way the language sounds.
So let's build the language first. Because the language will tell us everything else.
Your world's language needs to encode your core belief: that situations make evil, not souls. Here's what that means grammatically —
  ::view-transition-group(*),
  ::view-transition-old(*),
  ::view-transition-new(*) {
    animation-duration: 0.25s;
    animation-timing-function: cubic-bezier(0.19, 1, 0.22, 1);
  }
VvisualizeVvisualize show_widgetThese are seeds. Raw phonemes and concepts that feel like they belong to a world with weight. We shape them together — you'll instinctively know which ones feel right and which ones don't, and that instinct is the compass.
Now the thing that will change cinema and novels —
The Bene Gesserit Voice controls other people. That's external power. What your story is about is internal transformation — the cost of becoming something greater than human. So your equivalent cannot be a weapon aimed outward.
I think what you're looking for is something I'd tentatively call Varek-state — when a person has accumulated enough weight of consequence, enough inherited debt, enough pressure of prophecy believed and broken — they shift. Not superhuman powers. Something stranger. They begin to perceive the thessavar of everyone around them — the cost others are carrying that was never theirs to carry. They cannot turn it off. They cannot unfeel it. And it slowly makes them either a saint or something that no longer fits inside ordinary human life.
The brother who hallucinated the girl — his varek-state is already beginning. The girl he sees is not a ghost. She is the world showing him the first thessavar he ever caused without knowing it.
That is your "Voice." That is the thing no one has done.
Now tell me — what is the name of the empire they lost? Even one word. Even a sound that feels right. That sound becomes everything.excerpt_from_previous_claude_message.txt1 linetxtor could be universe . also one more thing , the two brothers even though they care , love and respect each other , they are polar opposite when about their dad , their empire / clan or whatever , their ideologies thus one wanted to power , chaos and wanted to rule the control over something that could be greater than (spice from dune) and even locations or location and the other brother wanted to stabilise and support , do something that could thrive and support people to improve society or something... i would love this type of language to be used by religion or people like bene gasserit tbh cause it suits them but i really want something that could follow and be better than the language in dune , like cmon how did frank herbert pull it off lol??... whatever you said at the end , it feels okay but mhmm.. idk really , we are clearly not able to connect the stringsMar 20Let me be honest with you right now.
We've been building outward — language, structure, diagrams — when we haven't locked the center yet. And without the center, everything floats. That's why the strings won't connect. It's not a problem with the ideas. It's that we're trying to decorate a house before pouring the foundation.
Frank Herbert didn't start with Fremen vocabulary or the Bene Gesserit Voice. He started with one question he couldn't let go of: what happens when humanity instinctively creates the very hero-figures that destroy them? Everything — the spice, the ecology, the language, the religion — grew outward from that one unbearable question.
You have your question already. You said it yourself, unprompted, with complete conviction:
"Situations and consequences make good and evil — not humans inherently."
That's your Dune question. That's the thing your entire story exists to prove, complicate, and ultimately make the reader feel in their chest. Now we need to find the specific situation — the single event — that the entire novel is the consequence of.
And I think it's already in what you just told me.
The father. The empire. The choice he made that doomed them.
Two brothers who love each other and are polar opposites about that one man. One who wants power because of what was taken. One who wants to build because of what was lost. A sister handed to a religious order — which means the father gave her away too, as part of whatever that choice was.
The father's choice IS the varek. Everything in the story is thessavar — cost paid by people who had no say in the debt.
So tell me this. Forget structure, forget language, forget cinema for one moment.
What did the father do?
Not the plot mechanics of it. The human thing. Was he a man who chose his empire over his children? A man who chose his children over his empire and destroyed it? A man who was given an impossible choice by someone he trusted — and the betrayal was that the choice was never real to begin with?
Because that answer is the heartbeat. Once we have that, the brothers' ideological split makes complete sense, the sister's exile makes complete sense, the prophecy makes complete sense, and the language we build will have something true to say.
What did he do?the father wanted to safeguard his children by any means possible and making sure they lie in good hands , not caring his clan name or title for that one moment before letting the rivals take his life , all of this was a said bond written long back (but we shall discuss this further into the storyline later) , what do you think of this cause honestly , i feel this is mid to low mid ... also the sister isn't her will to go to the religion or whatever place but she was in safe hands and she was eventually too young to decide for herself , you could also ask about the mother -- this is the my idea that she is paralysed and cant talk anymore and also some believe that mothers who get paralysed are through immense curse , unluck or rarely prophecy tied to it (which is actually).. we could make a unique way where the children could talk to their mother in different ways (web search for this and you could give me options)Mar 20You're right that the father's motivation as stated is mid. And I'll tell you exactly why.
"A father who sacrifices everything to protect his children" is a noble death. Noble deaths are passive. They happen to the story. What you need is a father whose protection was also, simultaneously, a cage. A man who loved his children so completely that his love was its own kind of violence. He kept them safe — and in doing so, made them entirely unprepared for what came after. The rivals didn't just take his life. They took everything he'd spent his life protecting, because he'd spent his life protecting it instead of preparing them.
That's the knife. The brothers can't even grieve him cleanly. One sees a man who gave everything. The other sees a man whose giving cost them everything. Both are correct.
The mother though — that's where you just handed me something genuinely original. Don't undersell it.
A paralysed, silent mother who the world reads as cursed or prophetically marked. Three children who grew up watching people fear their mother's condition while simultaneously being the only ones who actually know her — who learned to read her, interpret her, stay present with her in silence. That's not backstory. That's the emotional architecture of all three characters.
Now — different ways children communicate with a non-verbal, paralysed parent. Let me find what actually exists, because reality will give us something better than invention here.Searched the webSearched the webGood. Now I have what I need — but I'm going to set the research aside almost entirely, because what it confirmed is this: every real method of non-verbal communication between humans is rooted in the body. Eyes, touch, breath, muscle tension, proximity. And that's exactly where your story's most powerful scene architecture lives.
Let me give you the full picture now — the father, the mother, all of it restructured into something that actually has teeth.

On the father — here's why yours isn't mid, it's just unfinished:
A father who safeguards his children by surrendering his title and his life is noble. But nobility alone is passive. What makes it devastating is this: he wrote the bond long before the crisis came. Which means he saw this coming. He knew, at some point in his reign, that this moment was possible — and instead of fighting it or preventing it, he prepared for it. He made a deal with fate in advance.
That means the brothers grew up with a father who loved them completely and was quietly, methodically arranging their survival without telling them. The empire didn't fall on them suddenly. It fell exactly as he planned. And they didn't know they were living inside his plan until it was over and he was gone.
The brother who wants power is furious because he was never given the choice to fight. The brother who wants to build and stabilise is furious because he can't decide if his father was wise or a coward. The sister was the youngest piece moved on the board — placed into the religious order as part of that same pre-written bond. She didn't get to grieve with her brothers. She grieved alone, surrounded by doctrine.
That is not mid. That is the wound the entire story bleeds from.

On the mother — this is where we build something nobody has done:
She is paralysed. Cannot speak. The world reads her as cursed, unlucky, or prophecy-marked. But her children know her in a way nobody else in the universe does — because they were forced to learn her completely.
Here are the four communication methods, drawn from real human nonverbal science, that each child developed with her — and each one tells you exactly who that child is:
The eldest brother — touch and muscle tension. He learned to read her through his hands. He holds her hand and feels the micro-contractions — the way her fingers tighten on certain words, relax on others. He developed a private alphabet of pressure. This is why he understands power intuitively — he learned that the most important signals are the ones people try to suppress. He feels what others hide. This is also why he's dangerous: he believes he can read anyone, the way he reads her.
The younger brother — eye movement and breath. He sits with her for hours and watches her eyes track across whatever he's describing. He learned her breathing patterns — the slight catch when something frightens her, the slow evening when she's at peace. He built entire conversations from the direction of her gaze. This is why he hallucinates the girl — he's been trained since childhood to find meaning in things that don't speak. His mind builds faces and voices out of signals. He doesn't know how to stop.
The sister — proximity and time. She couldn't read pressure or track eyes as precisely as her brothers because she was younger when she left. What she had was presence. She would simply sit with her mother in silence for hours — and in that silence she absorbed something the brothers never did: the texture of waiting. Of not needing an answer. She is the only one of the three who knows how to exist in uncertainty without it breaking her. The religious order didn't teach her patience. Her mother did.

Now the question that's been sitting under all of this — the one we need to answer before we can build the world's name, the religion, the language, the equivalent of the Voice:
What is the pre-written bond the father made?
Because that bond is the prophecy. Not something spoken by a priest or a seer. Something a man wrote himself, in desperation or in wisdom, and set in motion — and which the universe then proceeded to fulfil in ways he never intended.
That's your eruvaal. The prophecy that was never spoken. Only believed. Only written. Only kept.
What was the bond? Who was it written with? And does anyone still hold the other half of it?or maybe we could show that the mother is blind and cant talk but has impressive hearing skills so much so that she could make out which children of her is walking towards them or through their breathing .. maybe she could even sense their feelings and worries maybe ??.. what do you think?? .. like we can include the paralysed part later which could rather imply that one puzzle of the prophecy (which is the brother who wanted power and rule has gained control to major parts and is something greater and stronger than paul) ... also the girl ( i have this idea that what if she was the twin the main brother who died when based on whatever age we show in hallucination) ... the bond could be something based on ending the empire but not ruining it anymore and ending the burden with him and not passing on into his children or further ..Mar 20Now we're hitting real veins.
The blind mother with extraordinary hearing — that's immediately more original and more alive than paralysed. Because blindness combined with that level of acoustic sensitivity means she experiences her children as sound and breath. She knows them more intimately than they know themselves. She can hear the brother's ambition in how his footsteps have gotten heavier over the years. She can hear the hallucinating brother's fear in the way he breathes when he thinks nobody is listening. She knew her daughter was being given away before anyone told her — because the house went quiet in a specific way that morning.
And here's what makes it devastating for the story: she knew about the prophecy tied to her blindness. She has always known. And she chose never to tell her children — because her hearing told her they weren't ready. She's been waiting, in silence and darkness, for the moment one of them finally asks the right question.
The dead twin — that just recontextualised everything.
The brother who hallucinated isn't haunted by a stranger. He's haunted by the other half of himself that never got to live. The girl is his twin sister who died — and she appears to him at every varek moment, every threshold before an irreversible choice. She's not warning him. She's witnessing him. She's the person who would have balanced him, argued with him, known him completely — and her absence is the specific shape of everything broken in him.
That also means the living sister has a ghost-sibling too. She grew up knowing there was supposed to be four of them. That the family was always already missing a piece before the empire fell.
On the bond — the father ending the burden with himself, not passing it to his children — that's genuinely noble and genuinely tragic. But let me push it one degree further to make it cut deeper:
What if the bond couldn't actually do what he thought?
He made a deal — wrote it, sealed it, gave his life for it — believing he was ending the chain. But the bond was written with someone who understood it differently. Or the universe received it differently. The burden didn't end with him. It transferred — into the children he was trying to protect. Not despite his sacrifice. Because of it.
His love didn't free them. His love is the prophecy.
That's your eruvaal. That's the thing that was never spoken but always true.
Now we have the actual heartbeat of this story. Let me show you what we've built, assembled for the first time as a complete living architecture —
  ::view-transition-group(*),
  ::view-transition-old(*),
  ::view-transition-new(*) {
    animation-duration: 0.25s;
    animation-timing-function: cubic-bezier(0.19, 1, 0.22, 1);
  }
VvisualizeVvisualize show_widgetLook at that. The strings are connecting now.
But there are two things still missing from the architecture and both of them are things only you can answer —
First — the thing greater than spice. This is the most important worldbuilding decision you'll make because it defines the entire political and cosmic logic of the universe. In Dune, spice was consciousness expansion plus interstellar navigation — it made the universe function. Whoever controlled it controlled everything. What is yours? It cannot be a substance. That's Dune's territory. It needs to be something your world specifically would fight and die and betray everything for. Something that comes from your universe's specific logic.
Given that your mother's blindness is prophecy-tied, given that the haunted brother sees through silence, given that your language has no word for an evil person — I think what your universe's most precious and contested thing might be connected to perception itself. The ability to truly see — not physically, but to perceive consequence before it arrives. Some civilizations in your universe have it. Most would do anything to take it from those who do.
Second — the name. The empire. Even one syllable that feels right in your mouth when you say it. That name will become the root word that the language, the religion, and the prophecy all branch from. Herbert had Arrakis, Atreides, Bene Gesserit — all carrying the same phonetic gravity. Yours needs its own gravity.
What sound feels like the thing they lost?where is the fun when you can't see the thing haha?... we need something better than spice which could connect cosmo politics and orderMar 20You're absolutely right and I deserved that — let me fix it immediately.
But before I rebuild the diagram properly, answer me this first because it will determine what "better than spice" actually is —
Spice did three things simultaneously and that's why it was genius. It was a drug, a fuel, and a religious sacrament all at once. The economy, the military, and the spiritual life of the universe all ran on the same single resource. Control it and you control everything — body, movement, and soul together.
For yours to be better it needs to do the same triple work but from your universe's specific logic. And your universe's logic is built around perception, consequence, and the cost of transformation.
So here's what I'm thinking — and tell me where this feels alive or dead to you:
What if the thing isn't a substance at all. What if it's a place. Or more precisely — a specific kind of location that exists at certain points in the universe where consequence itself becomes visible. Where the weight of every choice made at that location accumulates over centuries and becomes something you can almost touch. Civilizations built their greatest cities on these points not knowing why they felt different. Religious orders built their temples there because their priests could think more clearly inside them. Military commanders won impossible battles from those coordinates because they could see three moves ahead.
Nobody knows what these locations actually are. They just know that whoever holds them holds something that cannot be explained — only felt.
And your empire was built on the greatest concentration of these locations ever mapped.
That's what the power-brother is hunting. Not to possess a substance — to reclaim ground that thinks.
Now let me show you the full architecture properly —
  ::view-transition-group(*),
  ::view-transition-old(*),
  ::view-transition-new(*) {
    animation-duration: 0.25s;
    animation-timing-function: cubic-bezier(0.19, 1, 0.22, 1);
  }
VvisualizeVvisualize show_widgetEvery card is clickable — tap any one and we go deep on that specific thread.
But I want your gut reaction to the Locations That Think first. Because that's the make-or-break idea right now.
Here's why it could be genuinely better than spice — spice was extracted. You mine it, refine it, ship it, consume it. It's ultimately a commodity even if a sacred one. The locations cannot be extracted. Cannot be bottled. Cannot be traded. You can only hold them or lose them. Which means the entire political logic of this universe is about territory in a way that's almost ancient — almost tribal — but operating at cosmic scale. Empires aren't built on supply chains. They're built on standing in the right place.
And the religion makes complete sense now — because the order didn't build their doctrine around a substance. They built it around being present in places where truth accumulates. The sister isn't learning theology. She's learning how to listen to a location the way her mother listens to a room.
That's the thread connecting the mother's extraordinary hearing to the cosmic political order. The mother is, without knowing it, a living example of what the locations do. She cannot see — so she learned to perceive consequence through everything else. She is what a person becomes when they spend a lifetime inside a place that thinks.
Now — the name of the empire. One syllable or two. What sounds like something that was great and is now only spoken in past tense?i meant certain locations with power and control , they are not the "spice" we need something related to spice ... we need to work on that so try web search and lets not complete it , which need make it like super crazy yet simple like they did in duneMar 202 / 2You're right. I jumped ahead and made the locations into everything — that's not what you meant. The locations are political and strategic, like Arrakis as a planet. We still need the thing itself. The substance or phenomenon that runs the universe's veins the way spice ran Dune's.
Let me actually research what made spice so elegantly constructed — because Herbert didn't invent it randomly. There's a specific logic to why it works that we need to understand before we can beat it.Searched the webSearched the webNow I understand exactly why spice works and why copying its form would be a mistake.
Spice was described as "a MacGuffin that fulfils the purposes of magic fairy dust, non-renewable fuel, and hardcore party drug all at once." Vaia That's the secret formula — it did three completely different jobs simultaneously. It was a drug, a fuel for folding space, and the thing that gave navigators precognitive powers to guide ships. Ijceronline Economy, military, and spiritual life — all dependent on one single thing.
But here's what nobody talks about — Herbert told mycologist Paul Stamets that the giant sandworms were maggots digesting mushrooms, the spice itself was spores, and the Bene Gesserit mysticism came from sacred mushroom cults. Strange Horizons He didn't invent spice abstractly. He took something real — the fungal life cycle — and scaled it to cosmic proportions.
That's the method. You need a real thing. Something that already exists in the world with its own logic, its own lifecycle, its own relationship to human bodies and human civilization. Then you ask — what if this operated at the scale of the entire universe?
So here's the question that will crack this open for us. Spice was rooted in oil politics and psychedelic consciousness — the two defining anxieties of the 1960s. Your story is rooted in something different. Your themes are consequence, transformation, the cost of becoming, and situations that make evil.
What if your equivalent isn't consumed at all — but witnessed?
Here are three raw directions, none finished, none named yet. Tell me which one makes your pulse move:
Direction one — Memory as substance. Certain rare individuals in your universe can crystallise their accumulated lived experience — every consequence they've ever witnessed, every varek they've passed through — into something almost physical. Not a drug. A record. Other people can absorb it. Rulers use it to inherit the strategic genius of dead predecessors. Religious orders harvest it from dying priests. And the children of your fallen empire carry something in their blood from generations of sitting on those powerful locations — a density of accumulated consequence that makes them the most valuable and the most hunted people alive. You can't mine it. You can only be born with it or take it from someone.
Direction two — Sound as cosmological force. Your universe discovered that certain frequencies — not music, not language, something beneath both — hold the structure of space itself in place. The religious order built their entire doctrine around producing and maintaining these frequencies through human voices trained for decades. Without practitioners, certain regions of space become unstable. The sister isn't just learning religion in that order. She's learning to hold the universe together with her throat. The Conqueror brother doesn't want to conquer territories — he wants to control who produces the sound. That's real power.
Direction three — Grief as fuel. This one is the strangest and possibly the most original. Your universe runs on something that is produced only by civilizations in the act of losing something irreplaceable. The process of genuine, collective mourning — wars ending, empires falling, species going extinct — releases something into the fabric of space that can be harvested. It powers faster-than-light travel. It extends life. It gives prophetic clarity. Which means the most powerful civilizations in your universe have a vested interest in engineering loss in others. They start wars not for territory but to harvest the grief. And your fallen empire — the most reputed in the universe — produced the greatest concentration of this resource ever recorded when it fell. The children are walking around soaked in the most valuable substance in existence and they don't know it yet.
Which one hits?none , we need to work on more better ones and also we dont have to make it philosophical or connected to whatever we did nowMar 20Fair. Clean slate on this one.
Let me search differently — not for philosophy, but for actual phenomena. Things that exist in reality that are bizarre enough, fundamental enough, and contested enough to become the spine of a universe's economy.Searched the webSearched the webGood. Now I have enough real science to work with — and I'm going to set most of it aside because the answer isn't in particle physics. Let me explain why and then give you something actually usable.
The mistake most sci-fi makes is taking a real scientific concept and just renaming it. Dark matter becomes "shadow energy." Antimatter becomes "void fuel." It sounds cool for five seconds and then feels hollow because it's just a label with no behavior of its own inside the story's world.
What made spice genius wasn't the science. It was the behavior — it aged you, it changed your eyes, it was addictive, it made you dependent, and withdrawal killed you. That's a relationship between a substance and a human body. That's what made it feel real and terrifying.
So forget the science for a second. Here are five raw directions — stripped down, no philosophy attached, just what it does and why civilizations would kill for it:
One — Ash of dead stars. Certain dying stars release a window of matter during collapse that exists for maybe forty years before dispersing. Harvesting it requires being present at a stellar death. Whoever can predict stellar deaths controls the supply entirely. It doesn't extend life or give visions — it makes faster-than-light travel stable. Without it ships arrive. With it ships arrive where they intended. Navigation becomes warfare.
Two — Living crystal that grows inside specific planetary cores. Takes thousands of years to form. Cannot be synthesized. When consumed or worn close to the body it doesn't give visions — it makes the user immune to certain frequencies of radiation that are lethal everywhere in deep space. Without it long voyages kill you. With it the universe opens. Controlling the planets that grow it means controlling who can travel far.
Three — Condensed time. Certain regions of space near collapsed gravitational anomalies produce a harvestable phenomenon where time runs measurably slower. Civilizations have learned to bottle and transport this effect in a portable form. Used medically to slow aging. Used militarily to slow enemy reaction time. Used religiously as literal communion with eternity. The locations your empire was built on? They sit on the largest known cluster of these anomalies.
Four — Blood of living planets. Some planets are geologically alive in a way science in your universe doesn't fully understand yet. They produce through their tectonic activity a substance that accumulates in certain underground chambers. Contact with living tissue accelerates healing to an impossible degree — wounds close, diseases retreat, organ failure reverses. Armies fight without fear of injury. Rulers live centuries. And the production is entirely dependent on the planet remaining alive and undisturbed. Every war fought for it destroys the source of it. The supply shrinks with every conflict. The universe is slowly consuming the only thing keeping it alive.
Five — Silence. This one is the strangest and possibly yours. In your universe, certain forms of communication travel faster than light — but they're degraded by a kind of cosmic interference that builds over time and distance. The only thing that clears it is a substance found exclusively in regions of space where nothing has ever died violently. No wars, no supernovae, no extinction events. Pure astronomical silence. As the universe ages and wars multiply, these regions shrink. The substance becomes rarer every generation. And your empire was built at the edge of the largest silent region ever charted. The rivals didn't just want their territory. They wanted to own the last place in the universe where clear communication was still possible.
Which of these five makes your pulse move — even a little? Or tell me what's wrong with each one and that gets us closer to the real answer.
